# Introduction
In this work, a software for human face detection and recognition is prepared. Initial implementation of this work is service oriented. However, the analysis and design are done to promote the work as product based. The work is entitled as Face Detection and Recognition System.
- Face Detection is a application software to deal with human face. It has the provisions to collect image from the user so that they can detect the eyes, nose, mouth and whole face of human in the image. 
- There are various advantages of developing an software using face detection and recognition in the field of authentication. Face detection is an easy and simple task for humans, but not so for computers. It has been regarded as the most complex and challenging problem in the field of computer vision due to large intraclass variations caused by the changes in facial appearance, lighting and expression. 
- Face detection is the process of identifying one or more human faces in images or videos. It plays an important part in many biometric, security and surveillance systems, as well as image and video indexing systems. 
- Face detection can be regarded as a specific case of object-class detection. In object-class detection, the task is to find the locations and sizes of all objects in an image that belong to a given class. 
- The project titled ‘Face Detection and Recognition System’, is to manage all the front end back end system of finding or detecting particular region in human face. This software helps the people looking for more advanced way of image processing system. 
- Using this software they can easily find or detect faces in image and also recognize the face after saving that. Face-detection algorithms focus on the detection of frontal human faces. 
- It is analogous to image detection in which the image of a person is matched bit by bit. Image matches with the image stores in database. Any facial feature changes in the database will invalidate the matching process. A reliable face detection approach based on the genetic algorithm and the hog-model(Histogram of Oriented Gradient) for generalized faces. 
- Firstly, the possible human eye regions are detected by testing all the valley regions in the gray-level image. Then the genetic algorithm is used to generate all the possible face regions which include the eyebrows, the iris, the nostril and the mouth corners. Each possible face candidate is normalized to reduce both the lightning effect, which is caused by uneven illumination; and the shirring effect, which is due to head movement. 
- The fitness value of each candidate is measured based on its projection on the eigen-faces. After a number of iterations, all the face candidates with a high fitness value are selected for further verification. 
- At this stage, the face symmetry is measured and the existence of the different facial features is verified for each face candidate. <br/>
<p>Face detection is gaining the interest of marketers. A webcam can be integrated into a television and detect any face that walks by. The system then calculates the race, gender, and age range of the face.</p>